# Final Data Science Reflection:

### How is the advent of data science serving to advance our understanding of complex adaptive, economic, and social systems?

​	In the very short life of data science, this field of science has done an incredible amount in the    analysis of human development and behavior. The use of big data analysis has lead to the ability of data scientists to use mathematics to take preexisting data from many sources and create predictive models of human behavior. Everything from population growth to urbanization to economics can be analyzed through any number of data science methods that can in turn change the way we interact with the world.

​	An example of data science methods leading to a better understanding of society is with power law distribution. This mathematical law was developed in part by Geoff West, whose quote on the way that data can lead to our hope to "explain the  origins  of  the  universe,  the  nature  of  evolutionary  processes,  or  the  growth  of  the economy", explains a lot of human actions. Power law is one of many mathematical components to data science that can help in this quest to have a full understanding of humanity. Urbanization, healthcare, economics, linguistics, and so much more can be explained by this phenomenal mathematical law, and its interesting to think about what else this and other similar methods can do in the analysis and prediction of human behavior. Delphi analysis is another method that has been used to understand business growth and development, which lends itself directly to the economic health of the world. Every data science method, like machine learning and neural networks, can allow for scientists to use statistical analysis to develop models of past behavior, which can be used to predict the future. 

​	In class, even at the DATA 100 level, we've been able to use data science to create amazing geospatial plots and graphs describing countries in great detail. With more time and experience, the same data we use could be used by a scientist to create a long term analysis of geography, settlements, population, and so much more. By looking at in depth analysis of population counts over many years, for example, a clear graphical analysis can be created to show where people are living and how quickly an area is developing. With this information, a country could better understand where to allocate their resources and funds to best serve the largest population in need. With this resource made available to a country, urban planning could become more precise. In more rural areas of countries, where resources may be more scarce. Knowing in depth where people are living and developing can help with the construction of hospitals, schooling systems, and other community resources.

​	The availability of large amounts of data is both a pro and a con in the ethical side of data science. The biggest problem with data science and big data is security concerns. One side of this issue is with social media data collection. Nearly every website or social media platform that allows for interactions between the individual and the website asks for the allowance of cookie collection, among other data collection methods found in the terms and conditions. Very rarely are these documents read in full, and this leads to issues surrounding security of data. People generally click to agree with the terms and conditions without fully reading it, which allows for copious amounts of data collection without users really knowing what's happening. A recent example of this is with TikTok, and how their algorithm takes all photos from an individuals phone and puts it into the app. There have been instances where people have other users pictures in their photo section of the app, which is a major problem.

​	There are many obstacles that exist that can impede the ability of data science to aide in reducing unfreedoms as a whole. Collecting and manipulating data can only do so much in terms of changing the system that leads to dramatic inequalities all over the world. However, one way that data science may be able to help with these unfreedoms is with using predictive modeling for natural disasters and similar ideas for the reduction of geographic inequality. While this doesn't necessarily directly help with interpersonal conflict that leads to inequality and lack of freedoms, it can help lead to a stable state where these issues in society can be fully addressed. For example, using power laws can help geospatial data scientists create incredibly precise and accurate predictive models for a variety of natural disasters, which will in turn help with economic and social disparity. A specific example of this is with forest fire modeling and prevention. In developing countries where resources are scarce, having a model that can correctly predict when devastating forest fires may occur can allow for the proper allocation of funds and resources to the areas that will have the greatest impact of fires. Having this heads up on any sort of natural disaster through the use of machine learning and artificial intelligence can create a more stable country that will be able to allow for more time to be spent on bolstering the economy and working on social justice.

​	Going forward, it would be beneficial to society to see strides in crime rate analysis and healthcare. If there's a way to take the crime rates for areas with high crime, and create in depth models on the types of crime and location, then cities could have a better understanding on how to work on helping reduce this problem. For example, if a specific part of the city has a very high rate of robberies, then the city could invest more money in the area to improve security. This could be extrapolated to the entirety of the city, and allow for the improvement of quality of life. Healthcare has already had massive developments due to data science in the regards of developing better diagnoses and treatments of difficult diseases. Going forward, mental health, women's health and global disease progression could be better studied through the use of data science methods. COVID-19 has allowed for data to be collected on how a global pandemic spreads in this modern age, which is unfortunate in the moment, but could help in the future in the event that something of this magnitude happen
