# Data Science Reflection 3
## Laparoscopic Surgery and Delphi Analysis 

Laparoscopic surgeries have completely changed the medical field in the past decade. The point of this surgical method is to have one or two small incisions in the abdomen, through which the surgery is performed. Due to there only being one incision point, the surgery itself must be done using complicated AI and ML robots that can do most of small movements on its own (Romanelli, 2009). The robots are programmed and controlled by a doctor that may not even be in the same room as the patient due to so many moving parts on the robots (Campsen, 2018). This leads to fewer complications, shorter recovery time, and more precision in surgical practices (Romanelli, 2009). Laproscopic surgery is done for a multitude of procedures, including gastric bypass and colorectal surgeries (Romanelli, 2009). Before the invention of laparoscopic surgery, everything had to be done with large incisions that would tend to take a month or two to recover from (Campsen, 2018). On top of that, there have been many stories of people accidentally reopening their wounds or going into septic shock because of poor wound care. For these reasons, the development of laparoscopic surgery has been incredibly important. Due to this revolution in recent years, technology has had to become significantly more advanced to make these surgeries safer. 

One method that has been used in surgery is called Delphi Analysis. This method originated in the 1950s with the RAND Corporation and was created to “obtain the most reliable consensus of a group of experts” (Okoli, 2004). The Delphi method has been used mostly for the development and structure of expert communications to formulate feedback on various topics (Okoli, 2004). The way the method works is by having a series of questionnaires or tests that are given to a group of individuals that are usually experts in their given field (Rowe, 1999). Between each questionnaire set, individuals are given an “anonymized summary” of what all the experts responded with and are encouraged to revise their answers as they deem appropriate on the next questionnaire (Rowe, 1999). Finally, once the pre-determined end is reached, the results are defined by the average scores or responses of the repeated tests. This applies to data science, since the data that is gathered from these questionnaires or tests can be plotted and analyzed to develop new responses to given topics (Vogel, 2019).  

In a paper published by Surgical Innovations, there has been progress in recent years to incorporate the Delphi methodology into surgery (Jansen, 2020). The way that it works is that all the data from a particular type of laparoscopic surgery is compiled and processed so that the robots used for laparoscopic procedures can learn from any errors made in previous surgeries (Jansen, 2020). This study took 25 surgeons who each did a laparoscopic surgery in 3 iterations and the results are then compiled as part of the feedback loop that will be played for future surgeries (Jansen, 2020). The feedback would be played on a monitor during surgery so that the surgeon could see what happened in the past and what to do that would be more beneficial for the patient. The real time feedback on the patient's vital parameters helps ensure the surgeon doesn’t mess up the surgery (Jansen, 2020). 

### Works Cited 

Campsen, J. (2018, June 29). Getting Life Back to Normal After Surgery. Retrieved October 15, 2020, from https://healthcare.utah.edu/the-scope/shows.php?shows=0_jcd5tg17 

Jansen, M., Barsom, E. Z., van Dalen, A.-S. H. M., Zondervan, P. J., & Schijven, M. P. (2020). Identification of Meaningful Data for Providing Real-Time Intraoperative Feedback in Laparoscopic Surgery Using Delphi Analysis. Surgical Innovation. https://doi.org/10.1177/1553350620957783 

Okoli, C., & Pawlowski, S. D. (2004). The Delphi method as a research tool: an example, design considerations and applications. Information & management, 42(1), 15-29. 

Romanelli, J.R., Earle, D.B. Single-port laparoscopic surgery: an overview. Surg Endosc 23, 1419–1427 (2009). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00464-009-0463-x 

Rowe and Wright (1999): The Delphi technique as a forecasting tool: issues and analysis. International Journal of Forecasting, Volume 15, Issue 4, October 1999. 

Vogel, C., Zwolinsky, S., Griffiths, C. et al. A Delphi study to build consensus on the definition and use of big data in obesity research. Int J Obes 43, 2573–2586 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41366-018-0313-9
